---
Course: ISCC 166
Year Level: 3rd
Semester: 2nd
---
---
## The 9 Fs
---
1. ***Founders:*** Successful companies are led by a first-class, experienced technopreneurs. Their experiences were achieved through past business experiences or an in-depth technopreneurial education, but not by technopreneurial zeal.
2. ***Focus:*** Successful company founders don't try to focus on broad markets with their products or services. Instead, they specialize by focusing on niche markets within these larger markets where there are unmet customer needs and less competition.  
3. ***Fast:*** When they know what they want, successful technopreneurs go for it. They make strategic decisions rapidly and thoughtfully, implementing them quickly.  
4. ***Flexible:*** These business owners are not fixed in their ways. They always keep an open mind so they are able to respond to change.  
5. ***Forever innovating:*** By definition technopreneurs are innovators. They are tireless in their innovative zeal, which can sustain future product development as more unmet market needs are discovered.  
6. ***Flat:*** Because they abhor too much management, these technopreneurs maintain the minimal number of management layers possible within the business.  
7. ***Frugal:*** These business owners know the difference between profit and cash flow, and they strive to maximize both by keeping overhead costs low and productivity high, thus minimizing expenses.  
8. ***Friendly:*** These companies maintain a strong commitment to customer service (providing customers what they want), as well as to the well-being of their employees and satisfaction of their suppliers.  
9. ***Fun:*** This is why these technopreneurs started the business, and they never lose sight of it, especially in the tough times.

## The 10 Ds
---
1. ***Dream:*** Technopreneurs have a vision of the future and the ability to pursue their dreams
2. ***Decisiveness:*** They don't procrastinate. They make decisions swiftly.
3. ***Doers***: Once they decide a course of action, they implement it as quickly as possible.
4. ***Determiniation:*** They implement with total commitment. They don't give up despite the obstacles.
5. ***Dedication:*** They are totally dedicated to their business.
6. ***Devotion:*** Technopreneurs love what they do.
7. ***Details:*** Technopreneurs must be on top of critical details.
8. ***Destiny:*** They want to be in charge of their own destiny.
9. ***Dollars:*** Money is not the reward. Money is viewed as the measure of success.
10. ***Distribute:*** Technopreneurs distribute the ownership of their business.