---
Course: CSCC 22
Year Level: 3rd
Semester: 2nd
---
---

## Main Ideas
---
***Property***:
- not merely a piece of land or some asset
- A relation of a person, juristic person, or entity with an object upon which such person holds a right over it
- *ex. land, houses, objects, shares, licenses, leases, patents, money, pensions, and certain types of welfare benefits.*

***Intellectual Property***:
- Intellectual property protection is critical to fostering innovation as it protects *genuine business assets*.
- Without the protection, owners would not receive full benefits and focus on research and development subsides.
- Artists, would not be fully compensated for their creations, and cultural vitality would suffer as a result.

## Types of Property
---

| **Property Types**          |                                                                                                                                                                 |
| --------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ***Real Property***         | Any property that is fixed permanently on *land*                                                                                                                |
| ***Personal Property***     | *Tangible Property* - Any property that is concrete and not attached to land.                                                                                   |
|                             | *Intangible Personal Property* - Value is from legal rights. Physical qualities such as insurance policies, stocks, bank accounts, securities, and investments. |
| ***Intellectual Property*** | A work or invention, a result of creativity. Can apply for a patent, copyright, trademark.                                                                      |

## Intellectual Property
---
**Intellectual Property (IP)** refers to creations of the mind such as: 
1. inventions, 
2. literary and artistic works, and 
3. symbols, names, and images used in commerce.

**Intellectual Property**
- Intangible assets owned legally and protected
- It is *Indivisible*

Intellectual Property Law:
- Balancing rights so that they are strong enough to encourage the creation of intellectual goods but not so strong that they prevent the goods' wide use

**IP as a Property:**  
- It can be sold
- It can be bought
- It can be lease or rent
- It can pass under a will
- It can be assigned

## Categories of IP
---
1. Industrial Property
	1. Trademarks
		- it is a ***mark/sign***, capable of distinguishing the goods or services of one enterprise
		- trademark registration
			- gives exclusive rights to the use of the registered trademark. 
			- Whether it is exclusively used by the owner, or licensed to another part. 
			- It provides legal certainty
			- reinforces position of the right holder
			- usually lasts *ten years*
			- can be combinations of words, drawings, letters, shapes, packaging
			- trade mark registration
				- File application for trademark registration to the appropriate national or regional trademark office.
					- A clear reproduction of the sign filed for registration
					- A list of the goods or services to which the sign would apply.
				- At the international level, there are two options: 
					- Either file a trademark application with the trademark office of each country in which you are seeking protection, or 
					- Use **World Intellectual Property Organization's (WIPO’s)** Madrid System.
	2. Patent
		- An exclusive right granted for an ***invention***, a product or process by bringing something new may it be a technical solution
		- Getting a patent must be disclosed to the public
		- Patents give creativity recognizing and possibility of material reward
		- Patent protection give inventions to not be commercially made, used, distributed, or sold without the owner's consent. Usually enforced in the court.
		- Patents are territorial rights. In our country, it is Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines (IPOPhil)
		- Patents usually lasts *20 years* starting from filling the application date
		- Getting a Patent
			- File a patent application:  
				- Title of the invention
				- Background and a description of the invention
				- Technical details.
				- “claims”, that is, information to help determine the extent of protection to be granted by the patent.
	3. Industrial Design
		- refers to the ornamental or aesthetic aspects of an article.
		- may consist of three dimensional features, shape, two-dimensional features, patters, or lines or color.
		- Prevents third parties from making, selling or importing 
	4. Trade Secrets 
	5. Geographical Indications
2. Copyright