---
Course: CSCC 22
Year Level: 3rd
Semester: 2nd
---
---

## Explain the Capability Maturity Model (CMM) architecture briefly and discuss the maturity models in the CMM model.
---
* A *framework* in which *businesses and organizations* go through stages which would represent their ***maturity***. 
* This model has 5 stages which are: *initial*, *repeatable*, *defined*, *managed*, and *optimizing*.
* Initial as the lowest stage, where processes are undocumented and chaotic to the highest stage, optimizing, where continuous improvement and innovation are now present. 
* Businesses progressing through these stages will have better *efficiency* and *quality* in their processes and operations.

***The stages are:***
1. **Initial** 
	- Businesses just do “get a product out.” It is chaotic as processes are undocumented, the functional areas are just doing their own thing, and the communication is also low. There is also a lot of reinventing the wheel if something goes wrong.
2. **Repeatable** 
	- The processes in this stage are repeatable but only on the specific areas as the functional areas are not integrated, thus being compartmentalized. Being compartmentalized may not bring benefits as there would be issues of waste, miscommunication, and stress to employees. Although there may be some project management present, they are not standardized across the whole business.
3. **Defined** 
	- Processes are now documented and have some degree of process integration. Communication is now also present as the business now has a standardized process. 
4. **Managed** 
	- Businesses who reached this stage have a much higher level  of portfolio. Quantitative management is now present as measurements and metrics are involved. And If something were to happen in a process, the metrics and measurements will change and thus the business can now determine if those changes work in favor or not, leading to informed decisions. 
5. **Optimizing** 
	- Where quantitative management is present. And the business now focuses on continual improvement, building programs of change and innovation. If there is to be a change coming, a new goal and strategy will be developed. The change is then simulated and will be deployed if favorable. If deployed, the measurements and metrics data from change’s feedback will help the leadership team make informed decisions and improve the business.

## Explain the idea of a test process and why it is important to improve over time.
---
* ***TPI or Test Process Improvement*** is already explained by itself. It is an important phase where it greatly impacts the *testing and development phase*. Its focus is on improving processes each and every time that it is done. The process now must be better than the previous one. It is important to do TPI as it brings great benefits to the business, such as, the testing improvements, quality software, effectiveness and efficiency in testing, optimizations, and better costs.

## Explain the main idea in the Test Maturity Model (TMM). Discuss the different levels in the TMM in terms of their maturity goals.
---
* The Test Maturity Model or TMM is based on the CMM model, where it is a framework that focuses more on the processes of software testing and improving it. Similar to the CMM model, TMM also has the 5 stages which are: initialization, definition, integration, measurement and management, and optimization. The TMM model is great for businesses and organizations to effectively improve their testing practices, find and identify weaknesses, and improve on their testing prowess.

* The stages are: 
1. Initialization - This is the lowest stage where the software runs smoothly without blocks and obstacles. Although this stage does not have a defined testing process nor quality checks done on the software.
2. Definition - The next stage where the requirements are now defined. And there are some degree of test planning, strategizing, and test cases present. The test cases developed in this stage are compared to the requirements.
3. Integration - In this stage, the focus is on the software and testing it to manage the risks. The Software Development Life Cycle or SDLC  processes are now integrated with the testing procedures and are done separately after a development phase is accomplished.
4. Measurement and Management - In this level, all of the testing activities are actively measured, they are now also a part of the SDLC. In coding development, integration and testing are done frequently together with it. And that code reviews, document designing, and analysis of requirements are present.
5. Optimization - The last stage of the CMM model, where the testing itself is now optimized and tools that help optimization are also present . If there are defects that might occur, proper measures and methods are already present and that is already improved so that these defects cannot occur again.

## Discuss how TMM can be applied and co-exist in the Agile environment.
* The TMM model does really co-exist with agile development. The reason for this is that both TMM model and Agile development values align well, the TMM model’s framework for testing enhances the Agile teams’ performances. As Agile is more on the flexibility and iterative improvements, the TMM model can then help with a test process plan for the development team without unneeded obstacles. What’s more is that the iterations done in the agile environment together with its feedback, seamlessly supports the TMM model. The documentation also adopts a “just enough” approach where the team is not so burdened by it, as Agile does not really focus on documentation while the TMM model does, so this approach is made to bridge both TMM and Agile. There is also the fact that TMM has a structured test governance, whereas the Agile team is much more on the autonomy. To bridge this gap once again, people who are well versed in test process improvements are hired as advisors to help the team. In the coexistence of TMM and Agile environment, continual improvement is very achievable as both TMM and Agile values complement each other, TMM also serves as a smooth guideline for the Agile team.
