---
Course: CSCC 22
Year Level: 3rd
Semester: 2nd
---
---
## Version Control
- **Version Control** is the management of multiple versions of a project by tracking or recording each change made to a file and offers a way to undo or roll back changes.
- **Version Control** allows multiple people to work on the same project by having their own copy of the project in that they can modify and develop which can then be merged into the main project after they have completed their work.

## Version Control Systems.
- **Version Control Systems** are tools that facilitate Version Control by automating or assisting Version Control tasks such as tracking changes, managing versions, navigating between changes, reverting to a previous version and etc.

---

# **TYPES OF VERSION CONTROL SYSTEMS**
## Local Version Control Systems.
- **Local Version Control Systems** is a type of version control system that tracked changes made to files in a single database that is store locally in the computer.

### ~ Source Code Control system
- **Source Code Control system** or **SCCS** was a closed source local version control system developed by AT&T and was widely used until the 1970's
- **Source Code Control System** can only track one file at a time and cannot be used to track projects.

### ~ Revision Control System
- **Revision Control System** or **RCS** was an open source, cross-platform local version control system released in 1982 and was more effective SCCS
- **Revision Control System** can only track one file at a time and cannot be used to track projects.
- **Revision Control System** is currently being maintained by the GNU Project.

## Centralized Version Control Systems.
- **Centralized Version Control Systems** are version control systems that work by storing the change history on a single server that clients can connect to and work on a project.
- **Centralized Version Control Systems** will lock a file when said file is being used by someone which resulted in frustration due to the amount of coordination required when editing files.
### ~ Concurrent Version System
- **Concurrent Version System** or **CVS** was an open source centralized version control system that can track multiple sets of files and allow multiple users to work on the same file at once.

### ~ Apache Subversion
- **Apache Subversion** is an open source centralized version control system developed in 2000 that could track non-text files and tracks the entire project or directory rather than just files which means that it can track renaming, adding, and removing files.

## Distributed Version Control Systems.
- **Distributed Version Control Systems** are version control systems where each client has their own copy or clone of the repository and tracks changes as patches which can be freely exchanged between repositories.
- **Distributed Version Control Systems** does not necessarily need a main server since everything is done locally which means that a network is not required to use a Distributed Version Control System.

### ~ Forking
- **Forking** is the act of cloning a repository to make your own changes and have a different take on the project.
- **Forking** allows you to pull changes from other repositories as you see fit.

### ~ BitKeeper SCM
- **BitKeeper SCM** is a proprietary distributed version control system released in 2000 that had a community version that lacked the many of the big features of BitKeeper SCM and was popular with the open source community.
- **BitKeeper SCM** stopped being free in 2005
- **BitKeeper SCM** is now open source with an Apache License as of 2016.
- **BitKeeper SCM** played a big role in the creation of Git

## GIT
- **Git** is an open source distributed version control system that works faster and better and was made to replace BitKeeper SCM
- **Git** was created in 2005 by Linus Torvalds, the creator of the Linux kernel.
- **Git** can do the following:
    1. Go back and forth between versions
    2. Review the differences between those versions
    3. Check the change history of a file
    4. Tag a specific version for quick referencing
    5. Exchange changesets between repositories
    6. Review the changes made by others.
- **Git** works by taking a snapshot of the current state of the project and performs a checksum on the snapshot so that it can know which files are changed by comparing the checksums.

## Git States.
- The following are the **Git States**:
    1. Working Directory
    2. Staging Area
    3. Git Directory or Repository

>**Working Directory** is the current snapshot that is being worked on.
>**Staging Area** is where the modified files are marked in their current version and are ready to be stored in the database.
> **Git Directory or Repository** is the database or repository where the history is stored.

## Branch.
- **Branch** is a copy of a project which you can work on without messing with the repository.

## Merging.
- **Merging** is the act of copying the changesets done in a branch back to the source.

## Stashing.
- **Stashing** is the act of safely putting away your current edits so that you have a clean environment to work on something completely different
	
## Git Commands.
- The following are some of the**Git Commands**:
    1. `git init` is the command to initialize a new Git database or repository.
    2. `git clone`is the command to copy an existing database or repository.
    3. `git status` is the command to check the status of the local project.
    4. `git diff` is the command to review the changes done to the project.
    5. `git add` is the command to track or stage a changed file.
    6. `git commit` is the command to save the current state of the project to the database or repository.
    7. `git push` is the command to copy the local database or repository to a remote server.
    8. `git pull` is the command to copy a remote database or repository to local machine
    9. `git log` is the command the check the history of the project
    10. `git branch` is the command to list, create, or delete branches depending on the arguments passed
    11. `git merge` is the command to merge the history of two branches together.
    12. `git stash` is the command to keep the current changes to be stashed away to be used later