---
Course: CSCC 22
Year Level: 3rd
Semester: 2nd
---
---

## Overview
---
- Writing software is hard and error prone.
- Software projects fail as teams are unable to cope with software complexity
- Projects that fail to meet deadline costs more and don't deliver intended business value

- Software evolves over time
- Development is a collaborative process.
- Different individuals for different parts with different roles
*"The only constant is change"*

- ***Test-driven development (TDD)***, a popular practice of Agile software development.
- Write a failing test case before writing the production code
- If done correctly, it beneficially writes a software that meets expectations, has a simple design, and fewer defects.

## Test-Driven Development
---
- Software projects have a lot of uncertainties. Due to:
	1. New technologies
	2. Changing requirements
	3. People movement
	4. Combination of all
- Thus to overcome, we need *Software Development Practice,* that is:
	1. simple
	2. provides quick feedback
- ***Test-Driven Development (TDD)***, rediscovered by Kent Beck in 2003
	- A *development practice* increasing *developer confidence* through *advocating tests* for all *software requirements*
	- Makes us work in *short incremental development cycles*, providing quick feedback on our progress
	- Forces us to write a *failing test* before writing *production code*. Process is as follows:
		1. Add a test for the new functionality or behavior.
		2. See it fail.
		3. Write enough code to make the test pass.
		4. Make sure all the previous tests pass as well.
		5. Refactor the code.
		6. Repeat until done.
	- A failing test helps us understand the system
	- Quick feedback is the key to software productivity
	- TDD helps us in achieving these goals:
		1. Detect regression errors.
		2. Keep system design simple.

### Detection Regression Errors
---
- Detection Regression Errors in an automated manner
- TDD has the freedom to change and add new features without worrying about introducing regressions
- If test cases before are fine, then it is ensured that there is no regression error introduced.
- Adding tests for new behavior grows the safety net
- Test cases pay off and are worth it as someone makes a change each time
- Bugs that are detected sooner are always faster and cheaper to fix

|Software Testing Phase Where Bug Found|Estimate Cost per Bug|
|:--|:--|
|**System Test**|$5,000|
|**Integration Test**|$500|
|**Full Build**|$50|
|**Unit Test/Test-Driven Development**|$5|

## Keep System Design Simple
---
- Usually automated tests written have been traditionally considered a *quality assurance effort*
	- As they target the verification correctness of an implementation at its writing as well as its correctness in the future
- Remember that *testing* is just *one-half of the story*
- Two common phases of software development is *Design* and *Coding*
	- But, ***TDD*** breaks this myth of separating both phases a we don't need upfront design that always fall short when implementation begins. A just-in-time design is much more needed for evolution

- Writing tests start at designing the code with a *caller* in mind
- Tests become the *client* of the code. They help in writing just enough to meet the required behavior
- Once a passing test is achieved, we then *refactor* the code.
	- Refactoring stage is where design emerges, continues in improving the design of existing code without changing its external behavior
