---
Course: CSCC 22
Year Level: 3rd
Semester: 2nd
---
---

# Unit Testing
---
- Unit Testing is also known as *Component Testing*
- It is a level of software testing where it tests individual components validating their performance as designed
- In procedural programming, a unit may be a individual program, function, procedure, etc.
- In object-oriented programming, a unit may be a method, that belongs to a super class, abstract class, or child class.

## Method
---
Unit Testing is usually performed with *White Box* testing and is normally automated

## Tasks
---
- Unit Test Plan [Prepare >> Review >> Rework >> Baseline]
- Unit Test Cases/ Test Scripts/ Test Data [Prepare >> Review >> Rework >> Baseline]
- Unit Test [Execute >> Re-execute]

### When is it performed?
---
- Prior to Integration Testing
- After Coding
- Automated unit tests before coding

### Who performs it?
---
- normally the software developers themselves or their peers
- independent software testers, rarely, but needs understanding of the code and its architecture and design

## How to do Unit Testing
---
- Developers write a section of code to test a specific function in software application. Isolate this function to test it more rigorously which reveals unnecessary dependencies between the function being tested and other units so the dependencies can be eliminated.
- Two types of unit testing
	- Manual
	- Automated

**Under the Automated Approach**
- Developer writes code to test a function. Removes it later when the app is fully deployed
- Developer could also isolate the code to help in revealing unnecessary dependencies between the code being tested and other units or data spaces. And remove these dependencies.
- Developer uses a framework to develop automated test cases.
- **Workflow**
	1. Create Test Cases
	2. Review/Rework
	3. Baseline
	4. Execute Test Cases

## Unit Testing Techniques
---
Mainly categorized into three parts:
1. Black Box Testing, testing user interface with input and output
2. White Box Testing, testing the functional behavior of the software application
3. Gray Box Testing, testing test suites, test methods, test cases, and performing risk analysis

**Code Coverage Techniques used in Unit Testing**
- Statement Coverage
- Decision Coverage
- Branch Coverage
- Condition Coverage
- Finite State Machine Coverage

## Unit Test Example: Mock Objects
---
- Unit Testing relies on mock objects that are created to test sections of code that are not yet part of the complete application
- Mock objects, fill in for the missing parts of the program.

## Unit Testing Tools
---

| Testing Tools |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ***Junit***   | Free to use - For Java language - Provides Assertion to identify test method - Test data first and then inserted in the piece of code.                                                                                          |
| ***NUnit***   | Widely used unit-testing framework - .NET languages - open source - allows writing scripts manually - Supports parallel data-driven tests.                                                                                      |
| ***JMockit*** | Open source unit testing tool - Code coverage tool with line and path metrics - Allows mocking API with recording and verification syntax - Offers Line Coverage, Path Coverage, Data Coverage                                  |
| ***EMMA***    | Open-source toolkit for analyzing and reporting code written in Java language. Support coverage types like method, line, basic block. Java-based so it is without external library dependencies and can access the source code. |
| ***PHPUnit*** | PHP language testing tool - takes units and test them separately - allows to use pre-define assertion methods to assert that a system behave in a certain manner.                                                               |

# White Box Testing
---
- White Box Testing is also known as Clear Box Testing, Open Box Testing, Glass Box Testing, Transparent Box Testing, Code-Based Testing or Structural Testing.
- White Box Testing is a method in which the internal structure/design/implementation of the item being tested is known to the tester.
- A way of testing the external functionality of the code by examining and testing the program code that realizes the external functinlaity