---
Course: CSCC 22
Year Level: 3rd
Semester: 2nd
---
---

# Integration Testing
---
- ***Integration Testing***, is a level of software testing where individual units/components are combined and tested as a group.
- Done to expose faults in the interaction between integrated units.

**ISTQB Definition  
- **integration testing:** Testing performed to expose defects in the interfaces and in the interactions between integrated components or systems.
- **component integration testing:** Testing performed to expose defects in the interfaces and interaction between integrated components.
- **system integration testing:** Testing the integration of systems and packages; testing interfaces to external organizations (e.g. Electronic Data Interchange, Internet).

## Method
---
- The method depends on your definition of 'unit' and what you're integration
- Any of Black Box Testing, White Box Testing and Gray Box Testing methods can be used.
- Tests can either be manual or automated

## Tasks
---
- Integration Test Plan [Prepare >> Review >> Rework >> Baseline]
- Integration Test Cases/ Test Scripts/ Test Data [Prepare >> Review >> Rework >> Baseline]
- Integration Test [Execute >> Re-execute]

### When is integration testing performed?
---
Performed after unit testing and before system testing

## Types
---
***Unit/Component Integration Testing***
- focuses on the interactions and interfaces between integrated units/components.
- this is done and performed after unit testing and is generally automated

***System Integration Testing***
- focuses on the interactions and interface between systems
- the other system that needs to be integrated with cab ne either external or internal
- Normally exposed using APIs or microservice
- Done after system testing or in parallel with it

## Approaches
---

| Integration Testing Approaches |                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ***Big Bang***                       | All or most units are combined and tested in one go. Usually done when the team is given the entire software in a bundle                    |
| ***Top Down***                       | Top-level units are tested first and lower level units afterwards in a step-by-step manner. Test stubs for lower level units simulation.    |
| ***Bottom Up***                      | Bottom-level units are tested first and top-level units afterwards in a step-by-step manner. Test drivers for higher level units simulation |
| ***Sandwich/Hybrid***                | Combination of Top Down and Bottom Up                                                                                                       |

## Tips
---
- Have proper Architecture/Technical document where interactions between each units are clearly defined
- Ensure a robust software configuration management system.
- Each unit must be tested before integration testing.
- Preferrable to automate your tests, especially for top down or bottom up approach. As regression testing is important each time you integrate a unit and manual regression testing can be tedious / inefficient.