---
Course: ITCC 21.1
Year Level: 3rd
Semester: 2nd
---
---
- **Threat actors** are individuals or groups of individuals who perform cyberattacks.
- Cyberattacks are intentional malicious acts meant to negatively impact another individual or organization.

The **Threat Actors**
***Amateurs***
- also known as *script kiddies*, have little or no skills
- often use existing tools or instructions found on the internet to launch attacks
- some are just curious, while others try to demonstrate their skills by causing harm.
- still causes harm despite using only basic tools

***Hacktivists***
- hackers who protest against a variety of political and social ideas
- publicly protest against organizations or governments by posting articles and videos, leaking sensitive information, and disrupting web services with illegitimate traffic in distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks.

***Financial Gain***
- hacking activities are mostly motivated by *financial gain*
- cybercriminals want to gain access to our bank accounts, personal data, and anything else they can leverage to generate cash flow

***Trade Secrets and Global Politics***
- nation states hacking other countries
- also interested in using cyberspace for industrial espionage
- The theft of intellectual property can give a country a significant advantage in international trade

## How Secure is the Internet of Things
---
- IoT brings many *benefits*
	- improves quality of life
	- example is people wearing wearable devices to track their fitness
- *how secure* are these devices?
	- many devices on the internet are not updated with the latest firmware
	- some older devices were not even developed to be updated with patches
	- These two situations create opportunity for threat actors and security risks for the owners of these devices.

In October 2016, a DDoS attack against the domain name provider Dyn took down many popular websites. The attack came from a large number of webcams, DVRs, routers, and other IoT devices that had been compromised by malicious software. These devices formed a “botnet” that was controlled by hackers. This botnet was used to create an enormous DDoS attack that disabled essential internet services. Dyn has posted a blog to explain the attack and their reaction to it. Search on “Dyn Analysis Summary of Friday October 21 Attack” to learn more about this record-breaking attack.

> **DDoS** Attack means "**Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) Attack**" and it is a cybercrime in which the attacker floods a server with internet traffic to prevent users from accessing connected online 

For an explanation of the dangers of not securing IoT devices, search for Avi Rubin’s TED talk, “All Your Devices can be Hacked.” Dr. Rubin is a Professor of Computer Science at Johns Hopkins University.

