---
Course: ITCC 21.1
Year Level: 3rd
Semester: 2nd
---
***War Stories***

- Threat actors can hijack banking sessions and other personal information by using “evil twin” hotspots. 
- Threat actors can target companies, as in the example where opening a pdf on the company computer can install ransomware. 
- Entire nations can be targeted. 
- This occurred in the Stuxnet malware attack.

***Threat Actors***

- Threat actors include, but are not limited to, amateurs, hacktivists, organized crime groups, state sponsored, and terrorist groups. 
- The amateur may have little to no skill and often use information found on the internet to launch attacks. 
- Hacktivists are hackers who protest against a variety of political and social ideas. 
- Much of the hacking activity is motivated by financial gain. 
- Nation states are interested in using cyberspace for industrial espionage. 
- Theft of intellectual property can give a country a significant advantage in international trade. 
- As the Internet of Things (IoT) expands, webcams, routers, and other devices in our homes are also under attack.

***Threat Impact***

- It is estimated that businesses will lose over $5 trillion annually by 2024 due to cyberattacks. 
- Personally identifiable information (PII), protected health information (PHI), and personal security information (PSI) are forms of protected information that are often stolen.
- A company can lose its competitive advantage when this information is stolen, including trade secrets. 
- Also, customers lose trust in the company’s ability to protect their data. 
- Governments have also been victims of hacking