---
Course: ITCC 21.1
Year Level: 3rd
Semester: 2nd
---
---

## Certifications
---
A variety of cybersecurity certifications that are relevant to careers in SOCs are available from several different organizations.

**Cisco Certified CyberOps** **Associate**
>The Cisco Certified CyberOps Associate certification provides a valuable first step in acquiring the knowledge and skills needed to work with a SOC team. It can be a valuable part of a career in the exciting and growing field of cybersecurity operations.

**CompTIA Cybersecurity Analyst Certification**
>The CompTIA Cybersecurity Analyst (CySA+) certification is a vendor-neutral IT professional certification. It validates knowledge and skills required to configure and use threat detection tools, perform data analysis, interpret the results to identify vulnerabilities, threats and risks to an organization. The end goal is the ability to secure and protect applications and systems within an organization.

**(ISC)² Information Security Certifications**
>(ISC)² is an international non-profit organization that offers the highly-acclaimed CISSP certification. They offer a range of other certifications for various specialties in cybersecurity.

**Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC)**
>GIAC, which was founded in 1999, is one of the oldest security certification organizations. It offers a wide range of certifications in seven categories.

**Other Security-Related Certifications**
>Search for “cybersecurity certifications” on the internet to find information about other vendor and vendor-neutral certifications.

## Further Education
---
**Degrees**
>Anyone considering a career in the cybersecurity field, should seriously consider pursuing a technical degree or bachelor’s degree in computer science, electrical engineering, information technology, or information security. Many educational institutions offer security-related specialized tracks and certifications.

**Python Programming**
>Computer programming is an essential skill for anyone who wishes to pursue a career in cybersecurity. If you have never learned how to program, then Python might be the first language to learn. Python is an open-source, object-oriented language that is routinely used by cybersecurity analysts. It is also a popular programming language for Linux-based systems and software-defined networking (SDN).

**Linux Skills**
>Linux is widely used in SOCs and other networking and security environments. Linux skills are a valuable addition to your skillset as you work to develop a career in cybersecurity.

## Sources of Career Information
---
A variety of websites and mobile applications advertise information technology jobs. Each site targets a variety of job applicants and provides different tools for candidates to research their ideal job position. Many sites are job site aggregators. Job site aggregators gather listings from other job boards and company career sites and display them in a single location.

**Indeed.com**
>Advertised as the world’s #1 job site, Indeed.com attracts over 180 million unique visitors every month from over 50 different countries. Indeed.com is truly a worldwide job site. It helps companies of all sizes hire the best talent and offers the best opportunity for job seekers.

**CareerBuilder.com**
>CareerBuilder serves many large and prestigious companies. As a result, this site attracts specific candidates that typically have more education and higher credentials. The employers posting on CareerBuilder commonly get more candidates with college degrees, advanced credentials, and industry certifications.

**USAJobs.gov**
>The United States federal government posts any openings on the USAJobs website.

**Glassdoor**
>The website glassdoor.com provides salary information for different job types, companies, and locations. Search for “cyber security analyst” to see salaries and requirements for current job openings.

**LinkedIn**
>LinkedIn is a professional network of more the 630 million users in more than 150 countries with the mission of helping people be more productive and successful. LinkedIn is also a great source for career information and job opportunities.

## Getting Experiences
---
**Internships**
>Internships are an excellent method for entering the cybersecurity field. Sometimes, internships turn into an offer of full time employment. However, even a temporary internship allows you the opportunity to gain experience in the inner workings of a cybersecurity organization. The contacts you make during an internship can also prove to be a valuable resource as you continue your career. Search the internet for the best websites to locate network security internships.

**Scholarships** **and Awards**
>To help close the security skills gap, organizations like Cisco and INFOSEC have introduced scholarship and awards programs that provide money to students who meet qualification requirements. Search the internet to discover opportunities that are currently offered.

**Temporary Agencies**
If you are having difficulty finding your first job, a temporary agency can be a great place to start. Most temporary agencies will help you polish your resume and make recommendations on additional skills you may need to obtain to make yourself more attractive to potential employers.

Many organizations use temporary agencies to fill job openings for the first 90 days. Then, if the employee is a good match, the organization may offer to buy the contract from the temporary agency, converting the employee to a full-time, permanent position.

**Your First Job**

If you have no experience in the cybersecurity field, then you will most likely look for a company that is willing to train you for a position similar to a Tier 1 Analyst. Working for a call center or support desk may be your first step into gaining the experience you need to move ahead in your career.

How long should you stay in your first job? Generally, you want to make it through a full review cycle before leaving a company. That is, you typically want to make it past 18 months. Potential employers will normally want to know if you met or exceeded expectations in your current or past jobs.
