---
Course: PHILO 25
Year Level: 3rd
Semester: 2nd
---
---

## Classical Argument from Design
---

Cleanthes: *"Look round the world: Contemplate the whole and every part of it: You will find it to be nothing but one great machine, subdivided into an infinite number of lesser machines, which again admit of subdivisions, to a degree beyond what human senses and faculties can trace and explain. All these various machines, and even their most minute parts, are adjusted to each other with an accuracy, which ravishes into admiration all men, who have ever contemplated them. The curious adapting of means to ends, throughout all nature, resembles exactly, though it much exceeds, the productions of human contrivance; of human design, thought, wisdom, and intelligence. Since therefore the effects resemble each other, we are led to infer, by all the rules of analogy, that the causes also resemble; and that the author of nature is somewhat similar to the mind of man; though possessed of much larger faculties, proportioned to the grandeur of the work, which he has executed. By this argument a posteriori, and by this argument alone, do we prove at once the existence of a deity, and his similarity to human mind and intelligence."*

## Hume’s Critique
---
- We don't have the knowledge of how the world was *created*. So we cannot know which *analogies* should we even *follow*.
- Since we understand the world through are own intelligence, skill, and perspective it does not mean that the organization perspective is the cause, this leads to anthropomorphism.
- Infinite regress is a concern, as "Who gave the deity its Uncaused Cause nature?"
- Everything is in our own perspective, and we differ a lot on opinions. So we have no right to assume the cause of the world.
- We assume that God is the creator of all physical order. But what about the moral order?

## Hume’s Final Verdict on the Argument from Design
---
- The designer of the world has semblance and similar attributes to us humans. The religious person who then follows this belief does not have the certitude.

## Hume on Religion
---
● Proper attitude is one of cool reserve, of cautiously fitting his beliefs to the narrow shape of the evidence, of not trying to squeeze more out of the evidence than can be honestly got.
● The only honest attitude for the Christian, therefore, is one of faith, not one of claiming to base orthodox belief upon reason. This does not mean that Hume favors faith above reason; it means only that if you insist upon being religious, you cannot appeal to reason to backup your faith.
