---
Course: PHILO 25
Year Level: 3rd
Semester: 2nd
---
---
## Theodicy, A Defense of Theism
---
### Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
---
- He is born into a pious Lutheran Family
- He is a great thinker of the seventeenth and eighteenth century
- A German philosopher, mathematician, political adviser, metaphysician, logician
- Distinguished in his independent invention of the differential and integral calculus.

### Objections
---
The bullet points under each objection are my understanding of Leibniz' response:

Objection 1. Whoever does not choose the best is lacking in power, or in knowledge, or in goodness
- We cannot always choose the best choice as their are cases where we can only choose between two goods or two evils.

Objection 2. If there is more evil than good in intelligent creatures, then there is more evil than good in the whole work of God.
- It is really not necessary that there would be more evil than good. And we can't just focus on the evil that we as humans experience, even non-intelligent beings can contribute greatly to the good. Like plants and trees that grow are considered good.

Objection 3. If it is always impossible not to sin, it is always unjust to punish.
- Humans always have the freedom of choice to do whatever they want, may it be evil or good. And that God will always give the right aid to those that have good will. The ones who deny this grace by doing bad choices are accountable for their actions, and that it is not unjust that they would face their consequences.

Objection 4. Whoever can prevent the sin of another and does not do so, but rather contributes to it although he is well informed of it, is accessory to it.
- There might be some cases that preventing that sin would lead it into a more greater sin. We sometimes even contribute to evil or even open the road to it by doing things that we ought to do, and we are then not responsible to it even if we already know it.

Objection 5. Whoever produces all that is real in a thing is its cause.
- God really did create a where purely positive is present. But evil only happens if we limit or private the good that will happen, as we humans sometimes misuse our free will.

Objection 6. Whoever punishes those who have done as well as it was in their power to do, is unjust.
- God always takes into account the circumstances of each person before doing his own judgement. He always provides the grace and light to all people, and whomever follows this and truly did their best, he does not punish them. But to people who denied this grace and light, are held accountable to their actions.

Objection 7. Whoever gives only to some, and not to all, the means which produces in them effectively a good will and salutary final faith, has not sufficient goodness.
- Similar to Objection 6's response, God always give sufficient grace and light to those that truly did their best and followed it. He is not obligated to give everyone the same amount of grace as it is in God's discretion. God is always just and merciful as he always take our circumstances into account before judging our actions. So his distribution of grace is not about his goodness, but rather towards his wisdom and sovereignty.

Objection 8. Whoever cannot fail to choose the best, is not free.
- Humans have the free-will and it is in a sense the most true liberty and the most perfect freedom for us if we always use it for the best, without any obstacles. This is rather not a limitation of freedom, but the highest form of it.

## The Rebellion
---

### Fyodor Dostoevsky
---
- He is a Russian novelist, journalist, philosopher of political, social, and spiritual dimensions of human psychology.
- He is part of the people who began the genre of existentialist literature, as he is a Psychological novelist.
- His works focus mainly on human nature towards their dark aspects.

***Rejecting the Harmony***
- Due to the suffering faces by innocent children, he refuses to accept that suffering exists just because there would be a reward in the afterlife or that it will be justified by any punishment for any wrongdoing.
- Suffering is present, will always remain, and will always be unjust. So he rejects the God that allows this to happen.

A loving person would not participate in a system that perpetuates unnecessary suffering.
- As God allows suffering to happen, and that he gives compensation and rewards to the good by giving them eternal life but the bad are then punished in evil, would make us complicit to God's plan that we reap the benefits from the suffering of others without us knowing it. Despite them being innocent, but are unjustly punished for a far greater future or harmony, their sufferings and tears are not worth for this harmony.