---
Course: PHILO 25
Year Level: 3rd
Semester: 2nd
---
---

## Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
---
- He is born into a pious Lutheran Family
- He is a great thinker of the seventeenth and eighteenth century
- A German philosopher, mathematician, political adviser, metaphysician, logician
- Distinguished in his independent invention of the differential and integral calculus.

## Objections
---
Objection 1. Whoever does not choose the best is lacking in power, or in knowledge, or in goodness
- We cannot always choose the best choice as their are cases where we can only choose between two goods or two evils.

Objection 2. If there is more evil than good in intelligent creatures, then there is more evil than good in the whole work of God.
- It is really not necessary that there would be more evil than good. And we can't just focus on the evil that we as humans experience, even non-intelligent beings can contribute greatly to the good. Like plants and trees that grow are considered good.

Objection 3. If it is always impossible not to sin, it is always unjust to punish.
- Humans always have the freedom of choice to do whatever they want, may it be evil or good. And that God will always give the right aid to those that have good will. The ones who deny this grace by doing bad choices are accountable for their actions, and that it is not unjust that they would face their consequences.

Objection 4. Whoever can prevent the sin of another and does not do so, but rather contributes to it although he is well informed of it, is accessory to it.
- There might be some cases that preventing that sin would lead it into a more greater sin. We sometimes even contribute to evil or even open the road to it by doing things that we ought to do, and we are then not responsible to it even if we already know it.

Objection 5. Whoever produces all that is real in a thing is its cause.
- God really did create a where purely positive is present. But evil only happens if we limit or private the good that will happen, as we humans sometimes misuse our free will.

Objection 6. Whoever punishes those who have done as well as it was in their power to do, is unjust.
- Even if we have the authority to punish people, doing so