# Miracles and the Modern Worldview
---
## Miracles: Incompatible with a Scientific World View?
---
*“Miracles belong to a pre scientific picture of the world in which supernatural beings invade the natural world and bring about extraordinary events: raising from the dead or turning water into wine.”* 
- By Rudolf Bultmann

**Modern World View**
- raised by Science and Technology
- views nature as a closed, autonomous realm where an event of nature comes from another event of nature
- this made people no longer believe in miraculous stories
- leaves little or no room for spirits and miracles
- Modern people like to accept explanation that is clear and concise

## Hume's Definition of Miracles
---
**Miracle's Meaning: Two Senses**
- Popular
	- A miracle is unexpected yet beneficial event
- Strict
	- A miracle is an event that satisfies two distinct conditions
		- Nature cannot produce the event
		- An event that is directly intervened by God or some supernatural agent

**Miracle**
- an event not following a law that is made by a deity or some supernatural agent

*“A miracle may either be discoverable by men or not. This alters not its nature and essence. The raising of a house or ship into the air is a visible miracle. The raising of a feather, when the wind wants ever so little of a force requisite to that purpose, is as real a miracle, though not so sensible with regard to us. ”*
- By Hume's Reply

**Objection to Hume's Definition of Miracle**
There are conditions that are not sufficient and not necessary for something being a miracle. In where:
- A miracle is a surprising, astounding event. 
- A miracle serves some important, beneficial purpose.

*"Something may be a miracle even though we are unable to recognize it as such. Being astounding or surprising may be a condition if we are to believe that it is a miracle, not a condition to must be satisfied to be a miracle. Conditions 3 and 4 are necessary for visible miracles not to the invisible ones.*

*In different train example, supposed there is a child who are about to be hit by a train but the train engineer fainted on natural cause had his hand ceases to exert pressure on the control lever bringing the train to halt a few feet from the child. Is it not a miracle? Where is God's intervention?*

*The mother of the child proclaiming it a miracle would say that the timing of the natural causes of fainting was in some way due to God’s intervention. If it happened later may not save the child"*
- Hume's Reply

**For Hume, Miracles are:**
- our inability to understand the laws of nature
- our natural tendency to believe in extraordinary happenings
- evidence can only be found by witnesses' testimony

**Miracles Explanation: Floating Object**
- Accordance with a principle
- Refutation of a principle
- Violation of the law of nature

If someone already believes in a providential God who can intervene in the world, then accepting the possibility of miracles becomes more rational.


