---

---

# Ethics for IT Professionals and IT Users
---
**IT**
- a general term, used for computing professionals

**Ethics**
- a code of behavior that is defined by the group to which an individual belongs.
- ethical behavior conforms to general accepted norms that constantly evolves.
- ethics help members understand their roles and responsibilities.

**Morals**
- these are the personal principles upon which an individual bases his or her decisions on what is right and wrong.
- the core beliefs formed and adhered by the individual

**Virtue**
- a habit that incline people to do what is acceptable

**Vice**
- a habit of unacceptable behavior.

Why is **ethics** important?
- If there is a policy, you should follow it. Bare minimum, something already expected
- Understand the Code of conduct and code of ethics. These promotes *honesty, integrity, and fairness* in the workplace.

==Not all legal are considered ethical.==

#### Common ethical issues in IT
1. Protecting user data privacy
2. Ensuring fair access to computing resources
3. Avoiding conflicts of interests when making decisions that affect clients or employers

| **Data Privacy**            | **Data Security**      |
| ----------------------- | ------------------ |
| Use and Control of Data | Protection of Data |

**PII** 
- Personally Identifiable Information

**ISO 27001** 
- Privacy is an extension of Security
- We cannot guarantee privacy if it is not secure

**Fair Use Policy**

**A profession is a calling that requires**
- Specialized knowledge
- Long and intensive academic preparation

| IT Worker                  | IT Professional                   |
| -------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| not licensed               | Specialized Knowledge             |
| not liable for malpractice | Certifications                    |
|                            | Ethical Standards                 |
|                            | Continuing Education              |
|                            | Membership in Professional Bodies |
#### Relationships of IT Computing Professionals
---
- Employers
- Clients
- Suppliers
- Other Professionals
- Society

##### Relationships Between IT Professionals and Employers
---
**Trade-Secret**
- information used in businesses
- generally unknown to the public
- the company has taken strong measures to keep confidential

**Whistle-blowing**
- Attracts attention to a negligent, illegal, unethical, abusive, or dangerous act that threatens the public interest.

**Giving value to the client**
- provide a valuable solution
- quality service

##### Relationships Between IT Professionals and Clients
---
**Fraud**
- crime of obtaining goods, services, or property through deception or trickery

**Misinterpretation**
- is the misstatement or incomplete statement of a material fact
- the other party to enter into a contract, the party may have the legal right to cancel the contract or seek reimbursement for damages

**Breach of Conduct**
- one party fails to meet the terms of a contract

##### Relationship of Professionals and Suppliers
---
- Develop good relationships with suppliers
- Deal fairly with them
- Do not make unreasonable demands
- You can use **5W's and 1H** for determining bribes and gifts
- Deed of Donation,  a certificate that indicates that it was a gift

| **Bribes**                                                                  | **Gifts**                                                            |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Are made in secret, as they are neither legally nor morally acceptable      | Are made openly and publicly, as a gesture of friendship or goodwill |
| Are often made indirectly through a third party                             | Are made directly from the donor to recipient                        |
| Encourage an obligation for the recipient to act favorably toward the honor | Come with no expectation of a future favor for the donor             |

**Key Performance Indicators (KPI)**
- used by evaluation tools
- evaluating those above your position and under your position

##### Relationships between IT Professionals and Other Professionals
---
- professionals owe each other adherence to their profession's code of conduct
- Ethical problems between members of the IT profession
	- like resume inflation
- inappropriate sharing of corporate information

##### Relationships Between IT Workers and IT Users
---
**IT User**
- refers to a person who uses a hardware or software product

**IT Worker**
- are the ones who develop, install, service, and support the product

**IT Professional's Duty**
- Understand user's needs and capabilities
- Deliver products and services that best meet those needs
- Establish an environment that supports ethical behavior by users

##### IT Workers and Society
---
- Society expects members of a profession to provide significant benefits and to not cause harm through their actions
- The actions of an IT worker can affect society

Companies joining foundations to lessen Tax.

### Importance of ethical behavior in the IT Industry
---
IT professionals must prioritize ethical behavior to maintain trust in the industry. This includes respecting privacy, security, and intellectual property rights.

**Ethical decision-making frameworks**
- IT professionals must consider the impact of their decisions on society, environment, and stakeholders. Use ethical frameworks to guide decision-making.

**Ethical Responsibilities of IT professionals**
1. Respect user privacy and maintain confidentiality
	- Data Retention Period
2. Do not misuse computing resources or engage in unauthorized access
3. Strive to create inclusive and accessible technologies that benefit all users
	- Accessibility - can be used by anyone.

##### Consequences of Unethical Behavior in IT
---
As IT professionals, it is important to maintain uphold ethical standards to maintain trust and protect sensitive information. Unethical  behavior can lead to legal and reputational consequences.

Call to Conclusion
---
As IT professionals, it's our responsibility to advocate for ethical tech, protect user privacy, and promote diversity and inclusion in the industry. Take action.





