# Professionalism of IT Workers

## Principles and Core Values
---
**A Professional**
- is one who possess the skill, good judgement, and work habits expected from a person who has the training and experience to do job well.
- *Ethics, Honesty, and Integrity*

**IT Organizations**
- are desperately seeking workers who have the following characteristics of a professional:
	- They are an expert in the tools and skills needed to do their job
	- They adhere high ethical and moral standards
	- They produce high quality results
	- They meet their commitments
	- They communicate effectively
	- They train and develop others who are less skilled or experienced

CI - Background Investigation

#### IT Workers
---
Can improve their profession's reputation for professionalism by
1. subscribing to a professional code of ethics
2. joining and participating in professional organizations
3. obtaining appropriate certifications and 
4. supporting government licensing where available

#### A Professional Code of Ethics
---
States the principles and core values that are essential to the work of a particular occupational group

Practitioners in many professions subscribe to a code of ethics that governs their behavior.

For example, doctors adhere to varying versions of the 2,000 year-old Hippocratic oath, which medical schools offer as an affirmation to their graduating classes.

Most code of ethics created by professional organization have two main parts.
1. The first outlines what the organization aspires to become and the 
2. Second typically lists rules and principles by which members of the organization are expected to abide.

Many codes also include a commitment to continuing education for those who practice the profession.

### Essential IT Ethics Principles for Professionals 
1. Honesty and integrity - Be truthful and act with integrity in IT work
2. Confidentiality and privacy - respect and protect the privacy of individuals and their data 
3. Professional competence and responsibility - continually enhance skills and take responsibility for IT decisions 

### Prominent Professional Organization 
1. Association of Computing Machinery (ACM) - Founded in NY in 1947 - Dedicated to advancing the art, science, engineering, and application of information technology serving the public. 
2. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Computer Society (IEEE) - covers broad fields of electrical, electronic, ... 
3. Association of Information Technology Professionals (AITP) 
4. Sysadmin, Audit, Network Security (SANS) Institute


**Certification** 
- indicates that a professional posses a particular set of skills, knowledge, or abilities, in the opinion of the certifying organization
- Unlike licensing, which applies only to people and is required by law, certification can also apply to products (for example, the Wi-Fi CERTIFIED) logo assures that the product has met rigorous interoperability testing to ensure it will work with other Wi-Fi certified products and is generally voluntary

**Some Certificates**
- NC4   
- NPIC
- COMPTIA Linux

Aim for industry certification. Like the CompTIA, bundle of training with an exam to get certificate.

Vendor Specific Certificates
- have proprietary technologies

Vendor Agnostic Certificates and Vendor Neutral Certificates
- no proprietary technologies introduced

**Licensing of IT Professionals**
- In the United States, a government license is government-issued permission to engage in an activity or to operate a business
- Licensing is generally administered at the state level and often requires that the recipient pass a test of some kind. Some professionals must be licensed, including certified public accountants (CPAs), lawyers, doctors, various types of 61 medical and daycare providers, and some engineers.

CEUs are used to maintain certificates. But you can also opt to get higher level certificates to maintain the certificates.

**The Case for Licensing IT Workers**
- In 1993, the ACM and IEEE-CS formed a Joint Steering Committee for the Establishment of Software Engineering as a Profession. The initial recommendations of the committee were to define ethical standards, to define the required body of knowledge and recommended practices in software engineering, and to define appropriate curricula to acquire knowledge.
- The core body of knowledge for any profession outlines agreed-upon sets of skills and abilities that all licensed professionals must possess. The "Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice" documents the ethical and professional responsibilities and obligations of software engineers.

 **Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice**
 Software engineers shall commit themselves to making the analysis, specification, design, development, testing and maintenance of software a beneficial and respected profession. In accordance with the commitment to the health, safety, and welfare of the public, software engineers shall adhere to the following eight principles
1. Public - Software engineers shall act consistently with public interest
2. Client and Employer - Software engineers shall act in a manner that is in the best interests of their client and employer consistent with the public interest
3. Product - Software Engineers shall ensure that their products and related modifications meet the highest professionals standards possible
4. Judgement - Software engineers shall maintain integrity and independence in their professional judgement.
5. Management - Software engineering managers and leaders shall subscribe to and promote an ethical approach to the management of software development and maintenance
6. Profession - Software engineers shall advance the integrity and reputation of the profession consistent with the public interest.
7. Colleagues - Software engineers shall be fair to and supportive of their colleagues
8. Self - Software engineers shall participate in lifelong learning regarding the practice of their profession and shall promote an ethical approach to the practice of the profession.

 **IT Professional Malpractice**
 - **Negligence**, is defined as not doing something that a reasonable person would do or doing something that a reasonable person would not do.
 - **Duty of care**, refers to the obligation to protect people against any unreasonable harm or risk.
- **Breach of the Duty of Care**, is the failure to act as a reasonable person would act.


**"What Would You Do?" Activity Highlights**
1. Identify the problem
	- What is the problem? How could it affect you and others?
2. Identify Alternatives
	- What can you do to address the problem? May it be positive or negative.
	- You could do nothing, approach and address the problem, avoid the problem.
3. Analyze the Alternatives
	- What are the benefits of an alternative? What are its negatives?
	- What are some consequences?
4. Choose the alternative.
	- How would you implement the alternative? What steps do you make? What consequences could occur? What would happen in every step?
5. Determine the outcomes